docs: adapt release documentation according to new pre-release process (#3628)
kyma-project/telemetry-manager: docs/contributor/releasing.md

Reviewer: where is dev? 
the section heading in line 157 mentions dev, too

Reviewer 2: done

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - It uses GoReleaser to create the release
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   docker manifest inspect europe-docker.pkg.dev/kyma-project/prod/directory-size-exporter:{DIR_SIZE_TAG}
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   docker manifest inspect europe-docker.pkg.dev/kyma-project/prod/tpi/telemetry-self-monitor:{SELF_MONITOR_TAG}
```

Reviewer: I am confident that anyone trusted with releasing the module knows what "PR" means.

```suggestion
When the release branch is ready, the workflow creates a PR with version updates for your review. The workflow then pauses and waits for you to merge this PR before it can proceed.
```

- GitHub release creation
- Module manifest updates for multiple channels

> The process has two phases:

Reviewer: Avoid mentioning the number; if we ever add or remove a phase, no one's gonna remember updating the number here.

```suggestion
The process has the following phases:
```

> 1. **Pre-release (D-1)**: Run one day before the planned release to validate the release candidate, run all integration tests early, and submit the module to the dev channel. This phase catches issues before release day.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Pre-release**: One day before the planned release, run this to validate the release candidate, run all integration tests early, and submit the module to the dev channel. This phase catches issues before release day.
```

2. **Release**: Run on release day to create the official release and submit the module to all channels.

## Prerequisites

Ensure you have the following permissions:

- Write access to the telemetry-manager repository
- Access to merge PRs on the release branch

> ## Pre-Release (D-1)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Pre-Release (day before)
```

Run the pre-release workflow one day before the planned release day. It creates a `{VERSION}-rc.k` tag, runs all integration tests against the release candidate, and submits the module to the dev channel for early validation.

> [!NOTE]
> The pre-release does **not** require a closed milestone. Milestone management belongs to the release day workflow.

### 1. Prepare the Pre-Release

Before running the pre-release workflow, release all component dependencies:

> 1. **Release OpenTelemetry Collector Components (OCC)**: Follow the [OCC release process](https://github.com/kyma-project/opentelemetry-collector-components/blob/main/docs/contributor/releasing.md). OCC must be released **before** creating the pre-release so the same OCC image version is used for both the pre-release and the release, ensuring consistency.

Reviewer: active voice

```suggestion
1. **Release OpenTelemetry Collector Components (OCC)**: Follow the [OCC release process](https://github.com/kyma-project/opentelemetry-collector-components/blob/main/docs/contributor/releasing.md). You must release OCC **before** creating the pre-release because the same OCC image version is used for both the pre-release and the final release.
```

2. **Build component images**: Trigger the following workflows if newer images are needed:
   - [Build Directory Size Exporter Image](https://github.com/kyma-project/telemetry-manager/actions/workflows/build-directory-size-reporter-image.yml)
   - [Build Self Monitor Image](https://github.com/kyma-project/telemetry-manager/actions/workflows/build-self-monitor-image.yml)

3. **Verify Docker image availability**: After the component builds complete, confirm the images exist:
   ```bash
   docker manifest inspect europe-docker.pkg.dev/kyma-project/prod/kyma-otel-collector:{OCC_VERSION}-{TELEMETRY_VERSION}
   docker manifest inspect europe-docker.pkg.dev/kyma-project/prod/directory-size-exporter:{DIR_SIZE_TAG}
   docker manifest inspect europe-docker.pkg.dev/kyma-project/prod/tpi/telemetry-self-monitor:{SELF_MONITOR_TAG}
   ```

### 2. Start the Pre-Release Workflow

In the telemetry-manager repository, go to **Actions**, select [Create Release](https://github.com/kyma-project/telemetry-manager/actions/workflows/create-release.yml), and run the workflow with the following inputs:

> | Input                      | Description                                                      | Example              |

Reviewer: The input table for the pre-release workflow does not include `module_release`, but step 6 references `module_release` being set to true.

Reviewer 2: fixed

The PR contains the same `.env` changes as a regular release. See [Review and Merge the Version Bump PR](#5-review-and-merge-the-version-bump-pr) for the full list of changes.

After you merge the PR, the workflow creates the `{VERSION}-rc.k` tag (for example, `1.2.3-rc.1`) and triggers the Docker image build.

> [!WARNING]
> The workflow fails if you do not merge the PR within 120 minutes.

### 5. Automatic Testing

After the PR is merged and the rc tag is pushed, the workflow runs:

1. **Unit Tests**: Full test suite
2. **PR Integration Tests**: End-to-end integration tests against the rc image
3. **Gardener Integration Tests**: Tests on Gardener-managed clusters against the rc image

> [!NOTE]
> The integration test jobs wait up to 15 minutes for the rc Docker image to be available before starting (because the Docker image build runs in parallel).

All tests must pass before the pre-release is created.

### 6. Automatic Pre-Release Creation

After all tests pass, the workflow creates the GitHub pre-release using GoReleaser. The release is automatically marked as a pre-release based on the `-rc.k` semver suffix.

> If `module_release` is set to `true`, the workflow also triggers a module submission to the **dev channel** only (not fast or experimental). The submission uses `release_tag={VERSION}-rc.k` so the module manifest points to the rc image.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If `module_release` is set to `true`, the workflow also triggers a module submission to the **dev channel** only (not fast or experimental). The submission uses `release_tag={VERSION}-rc.k`, so the module manifest points to the rc image.
```

- GitHub release creation
- Module manifest updates for multiple channels

The process has the following phases:

1. **Pre-release**: One day before the planned release, run this to validate the release candidate, run all integration tests early, and submit the module to the dev channel. This phase catches issues before release day.
2. **Release**: Run on release day to create the official release and submit the module to all channels.

## Prerequisites

Ensure you have the following permissions:

- Write access to the telemetry-manager repository
- Access to merge PRs on the release branch

## Pre-Release (day before)

Run the pre-release workflow one day before the planned release day. It creates a `{VERSION}-rck` tag, runs all integration tests against the release candidate, and submits the module to the dev channel for early validation.

> [!NOTE]

> > The pre-release does **not** require a closed milestone. Milestone management belongs to the release day workflow.

Reviewer: What do we want the reader to do with this information? 
"Do not close the milestone today; that's tomorrow's work"? 
Or "do not worry that the milestone is still open, this happens tomorrow." ?

### 3. Automatic Validation

The pre-release workflow validates the following conditions:

- The version format follows semantic versioning (`X.Y.Z`)
- The OCC version format matches the expected pattern (`X.Y.Z-A.B.C`)
- The image tag format matches the expected pattern (`vYYYYMMDD-HASH`)
- All required Docker images exist in the registry

> [!NOTE]
> Milestone checks and tag-conflict checks are skipped for pre-releases. The workflow computes the next rc tag automatically.

### 4. Pre-Release Branch and Version Bump PR

The workflow creates a `pre-release-{VERSION}` branch (for example, `pre-release-1.2.3`) from `main` and opens a version bump PR against that branch. Standard PR checks run automatically on this PR.

The PR contains the same `.env` changes as a regular release. See [Review and Merge the Version Bump PR](#5-review-and-merge-the-version-bump-pr) for the full list of changes.

After you merge the PR, the workflow creates the `{VERSION}-rck` tag (for example, `1.2.3-rc1`) and triggers the Docker image build.

> [!WARNING]
> The workflow fails if you do not merge the PR within 120 minutes.

### 5. Automatic Testing

> After the PR is merged and the rc tag is pushed, the workflow runs:

Reviewer: active voice

```suggestion
After you merge the PR and the workflow pushes the RC tag, the workflow runs the following tests:
```

1. **Unit Tests**: Full test suite
2. **PR Integration Tests**: End-to-end integration tests against the rc image
3. **Gardener Integration Tests**: Tests on Gardener-managed clusters against the rc image

> > [!NOTE]

Reviewer: why is this a note? it's just part of the normal flow of this step. 
Or does that need special attention or is it unexpected information?

```suggestion
```

> > The integration test jobs wait up to 15 minutes for the rc Docker image to be available before starting (because the Docker image build runs in parallel).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The integration test jobs wait up to 15 minutes for the rc Docker image to be available before starting (because the Docker image build runs in parallel).
```

   - Close the milestone.
   - Create a new [GitHub milestone](https://github.com/kyma-project/telemetry-manager/milestones) for the next version.

> 2. **Component Image Versions**: If you ran the pre-release workflow on D-1, all component images are already built. Use the same image versions that were used for the pre-release.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. **Component Image Versions**: If you ran the pre-release workflow the day before, all component images are already built. Use the same image versions that were used for the pre-release.
```

   If you are running the release without a prior pre-release, build the component images first:
   - [Build Directory Size Exporter Image](https://github.com/kyma-project/telemetry-manager/actions/workflows/build-directory-size-reporter-image.yml) - Produces image tags like `v20260302-12345678`
   - [Build Self Monitor Image](https://github.com/kyma-project/telemetry-manager/actions/workflows/build-self-monitor-image.yml) - Produces image tags like `v20260302-bbf32a3b`
   - [OpenTelemetry Collector Components Create Release](https://github.com/kyma-project/opentelemetry-collector-components/actions/workflows/create-release.yaml) - Version format: **`{OCC_VERSION}`**-**`{TELEMETRY_VERSION}`**, such as `0.100.0-1.2.3`

3. **Verify Docker Image Availability**: Confirm that all required Docker images exist in the registry:
   ```bash
   # Check OCC image

>    docker manifest inspect europe-docker.pkg.dev/kyma-project/prod/kyma-otel-collector:**{OCC_VERSION}-{TELEMETRY_VERSION}**

Reviewer: I don't think you want bold formatting in a code block? 
Curly brackets should be enough, like in the pre-release instructions (line 82ff)

```suggestion
   docker manifest inspect europe-docker.pkg.dev/kyma-project/prod/kyma-otel-collector:{OCC_VERSION}-{TELEMETRY_VERSION}
```

| Channel        | Auto-merge | Target Repository       |
|----------------|------------|-------------------------|
| `dev`          | Enabled    | `kyma/module-manifests` |
| `fast`         | Enabled    | `kyma/module-manifests` |
| `experimental` | Enabled    | `kyma/module-manifests` |

> > [!NOTE]

Reviewer: this doesn't have to be a note box, it's simply normal information about this step

```suggestion
```

> > These module submissions create PRs in the `kyma/module-manifests` repository with auto-merge enabled. The PRs are merged automatically after one of the mod-approvers approve the PR and all the checks are passed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These module submissions create PRs in the `kyma/module-manifests` repository with auto-merge enabled. If a `mod-approver` approves the PR and all checks pass, the PRs merge automatically.
```

   - **dry_run**: `false`
   - **auto_merge**: `true` or `false` for manual merge

> [!NOTE]

> > The typical practice is to wait approximately 2 weeks after releasing to the fast and experimental channels before releasing to the regular channel. This allows time to identify and address any issues in production environments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Wait approximately 2 weeks after releasing to the fast and experimental channels before releasing to the regular channel. This gives production environments time to identify and address any issues.
```
